README.md, before:

Qor
===

Copyright (c) 2013 Grady O'Connell

2D/3D OpenGL Game Engine (C++11 w/ Python scripting)

2013 rewrite of my old game engine, found here:
https://github.com/flipcoder/qor-old

##Features

- Cross-platform
- Multi-threaded (more improvements here soon)
- Multi-layer tilemap system for 2D games
- OpenGL ES-compatible shader-based pipeline
    - Normal GL stuff like antialiasing, anisotropic filtering
    - Forward rendering w/ multipass lighting (rewriting still from old engine)
    - Partitioner support
- Raspberry Pi support planned
- C++ and Python mod support
- Shared resource management
    - Animating Sprites
    - Resource path finding management
    - Basic create() function for all types
    - Json config for more complex resources
        - Config-based type-resolution and subresources
    - Cache garbage collection
    - Composite resource suport (resources loading other resources through cache)
    - User-defined resources
    - Texture streaming support (Not in yet, but supported by resource cache)
- Scene Graph
    - World matrix transform caching
    - Tracking/following w/ animation support
    - Node factory supporting user classes
    - Node tags
- State stack
    - User-defined states
    - Async loading screens
        - thread-safe OpenGL task handler
- Mesh support
    - Mesh copy-on-write vertex and shader attribute modifications
    - Basic instancing

More features will be listed as I add them...

##Screenshots

(placeholder)

Commit message:

working on libRocket support for GUI

README.md, after:

Qor
===

Copyright (c) 2014 Grady O'Connell

2D/3D OpenGL Game Engine (C++11 w/ Python scripting)
Status: In early development

This is a rewrite of my old game engine, found here:
https://github.com/flipcoder/qor-old

##Instructions

Build with [premake4](http://industriousone.com/premake/download).
[siege-tools](https://github.com/flipcoder/siege-tools) is recommended.

##Features

- Cross-platform w/ Android and iOS support planned
- Multi-threaded (more improvements here soon)
- Multi-layer tilemap system for 2D games
- OpenGL ES-compatible shader-based pipeline
    - Normal GL stuff like antialiasing, anisotropic filtering
    - Forward rendering w/ multipass lighting (rewriting still from old engine)
    - Partitioner support
- Raspberry Pi support planned
- C++ and Python mod support
- Shared resource management
    - Animating Sprites
    - Resource path finding management
    - Basic create() function for all types
    - Json config for more complex resources
        - Config-based type-resolution and subresources
    - Cache garbage collection
    - Composite resource suport (resources loading other resources through cache)
    - User-defined resources
    - Texture streaming support (Not in yet, but supported by resource cache)
- Scene Graph
    - World matrix transform caching
    - Tracking/following w/ animation support
    - Node factory supporting user classes
    - Node tags
- State stack
    - User-defined states
    - Async loading screens
        - thread-safe OpenGL task handler
- Mesh support
    - Mesh copy-on-write vertex and shader attribute modifications
    - Basic instancing
- Input
    - Multiple controllers
    - Bindings specific to player profile
    - Button/switch-associated events
    - Switch history for timer-based events and multiple fast presses
    - Activation thresholds
- Animation (code moved to [kit](https://github.com/flipcoder/kit)
    - Timer-based keyframes
    - Interpolation
    - Callback scheduling
- Music and 3D Sound
    - Powered by OpenAL
    - Wav and Ogg support

More features will be listed as I add them...

##Screenshots

(placeholder)
